[Music]
buckle up buckaroo
eight things you're doing wrong when
driving fast so we're juggling three
oranges while driving blindfolded in the
fast lane count here yes okay I thought
so now you might find yourself driving
fast if you're late for work need to be
on time for an appointment or want to
get your destination as quickly as
possible even if you stay under the
speed limit
there are certain things that can put
you at risk of an accident and should be
avoided keep watching to learn how you
can drive fast and be a responsible
driver for yourself your passengers and
other cars in the vicinity and don't
forget to click the subscribe button and
turn on notifications to join us on the
bright side of life counting down from
number eight turning the steering wheel
incorrectly the way you turn the wheel
while driving fast can be crucial a lot
of people use one hand or put one hand
over the other to make a turn if you
want to turn right the proper way is to
push the steering wheel with your left
hand and pull it with your right hand if
you drive fast you're at a higher risk
of getting into an accident which is why
you need to be mindful of your car's
airbags and how they respond if your
airbag is deployed while you're turning
a wheel with an incorrect movement the
force of the airbag could send your hand
flying into your face and cause serious
damage to avoid this just remember to
use the push and pull movement and
though it might look cool never turn the
wheel with just the palm of your hand or
your thumbs number seven coasting now
coasting is dangerous by itself if you
ant speed the danger only increases when
a car is coasting it's moving forward
without using a lot of power or effort
and you lose any braking assistance your
engine provides coasting can be
accomplished by holding down the clutch
pedal or setting the car's gear in
neutral accidents can occur when drivers
fail to use the accelerator and brakes
and just let momentum do the job
coasting might save you some gas but it
will make you lose throttle
if you're making a turn on the road the
wheels will no longer be controlled by
the engine which might make the car bend
too fast or make a turn that's too wide
and of course if you're driving downhill
the vehicle will basically be
free-falling and will quickly gather
speed this will force you to slam on the
brakes in hopes of restoring control
number six not keeping your eyes on the
road bet you've heard this one before
from your mother this one might seem
like common sense but it's more
important than ever when driving at high
speeds nothing should be distracting the
driver visually in a six second period
drivers who take their eyes off the road
for 4.6 seconds in which time a
pedestrian could cross the road traffic
could come to a full stop or an animal
could get in the way other visual
distractions like using a GPS or trying
to change a song on your iPod can lead
to serious consequences if you aren't
mentally engaged with driving that can
also lead to accidents if your mind is
elsewhere may be thinking about your
grocery list or your to-do list for the
day and you're speeding at 50 miles per
hour you might miss an important stop
sign or not realize that the light
changed from green to red number 5
distracted driving when you think of
distracted driving you might think about
driving under the influence texting or
talking on the phone however something
like playing loud music can also affect
your response time a study conducted at
Memorial University of Newfoundland
found that listening to loud music can
slow down someone's reaction time by 20%
that is a critical amount of time and it
could prevent an accident so what
exactly would be considered loud music
just about 95 DB and since typical car
radios can reach 110 DB and some can go
up to 170 dB
this situation happens more often than
it should number 4
listen to your favorite tunes
loud music isn't the only thing that can
distract you your favorite songs at a
normal volume can also do the track
music is known to reduce stress and
anxiety and improve memory so there are
plenty of upsides to it but blaring out
your favorite songs while driving fast
might not be such a good idea a 2013
study conducted at ben-gurion University
in Israel tested 85 teenagers on their
driving skills while listening to music
while listening to their favorite songs
98% of them made errors while listening
to easygoing music like soft rock or
jazz only 77% of them made mistakes so
if you're driving fast it's best to keep
the radio off number 3 staying too close
to other cars the recommendation is to
double or even triple your distance
between cars a good way of judging this
distance is if the car ahead of you
passes a landmark it should take six
seconds before you pass it many drivers
don't take into consideration that as
you increase your speed you should also
increase the distance between cars for
every 10 miles per hour
there should be four car lengths of
space a greater distance gives you more
time to react to a dangerous situation
reaction times vary from person to
person
if you drive fast and the car ahead of
you stops in a short amount of time
you'll have to decide whether to keep
accelerating or brake and whether to go
straight ahead or try to veer to the
side it usually takes between 0.7 and 3
seconds for a person to react with the
average person reacting in about 2.5
seconds and keep in mind that if you
drive too close to a car this could be
considered tailgating which is illegal
in many places number 2 driving fast
despite bad weather conditions when the
weather gets bad like when it's raining
or a huge amount of falling snow
threatens your visibility it's time to
slow down unfortunately not everyone
does that the speed limits on roads are
meant to be used in ID
or dry conditions so it's necessary to
slow down for winter weather even if you
feel confident that you can avoid a
patch of ice and keep control of your
car it isn't just about your control but
about everyone else's on the road to
other vehicles might hydroplane or stop
suddenly
if you drive fast you'll have less time
to react and you might panic and slam on
your brakes if you're driving in the
snow this could make your tires lose
traction and fully take away your
ability to control your vehicle it can
take four to ten times longer to brake
on ice then on dry asphalt normally a
car traveling at 60 miles per hour needs
a minimum of 240 feet to come to a full
stop but this distance increases
significantly in wet conditions number
one incorrect hand position in the past
people were taught to keep their hands
at the 10 and 2 o'clock positions on the
steering wheel but triple-a and the
National Highway Safety Administration
have changed the guidelines it is now
recommended that people hold the wheel
at the 9 and 3 o'clock positions if you
hold the steering wheel with one hand or
hold it lower than recommended perhaps
at the 8 and 4 o'clock positions this
will lessen your control of the car
having control is of the utmost
importance while you're driving fast in
case of an accident having your hands
high up put you a greater risk of injury
if the airbag deploys remember that your
safety can't be guaranteed if you're
driving over the speed limit it might be
better to be a little late to your
meeting than risk getting into an
accident like they say better safe than
sorry so tell us bright ciders are you
guilty of doing any of these things let
us know in the comment section don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side
you